#summary Creating GERBER files for PCB fabrication
#labels Phase-Implementation

= How to Create GERBER Files from EAGLE Files =

This How-to gives step-by-step instructions on converting the EAGLE board (.brb) and schematic (.sch) files into GERBER files, which are necessary for submission to a printed-circuit board (PCB) fabrication house, such as [http://www.4pcb.com Advanced Circuits].

The majority of this content is paraphrased from Colin Karpfinger's [http://colinkarpfinger.com/blog/2010/ordering-pcbs-designed-with-eagle/ guide] for "Ordering PCBs Designed in EAGLE".

== Pre-CAM Checks ==

Before processing the board in EAGLE, the circuit and board should be checked for errors and dimensions. The following list outlines some of the checks that should be conducted. None of these are necessarily required, but all are a good idea to prevent useless boards.

  # Print out a 1:1 scale of the board file and ensure all of the physical parts align with the footprints for each component on the board. This may be unnecessary, or excessive, but reasonable if this is the first time the board is to be fabricated. It is also recommended to order all of the parts for the board before ordering the board to avoid any surprises.
  # Conduct a Design Rule Check (DRC) in EAGLE. Review the results and fix any major mistakes. Please keep in mind many errors will be fixed automatically by the PCB fabrication house during submission.
  # Run the the Ratsnet command to ensure there are no left-over airwires and everything is connected. If successful, then the status message for the command will say, "Nothing to do!"

== CAM Processing ==

The following series of steps will process the board and create a series of files that make up a GERBER file. 

  # Click on the CAM Process button
  # Open the job file for the layers: File->Open->Job...->gerb274x.cam (2-layer) or gerb274x-4layer.cam (4-layer)
  # Ensure the "Mirror" check box under the "Style" heading has been unchecked for each tab in the CAM Processor dialog
  # Optional: Click on the "Silk screen CMP" tab. Highlight the "tValues" layer in the layer list if you want the values for all the components also printed on the PCB
  # Click "Process Job"
  # Open the job file for drilling holes: File->Open->Job...->excellon.cam
  # Ensure the "Mirror" check box under the "Style" heading has been unchecked for each tab in the CAM Processor dialog
  # Click "Process Job"

The following files will be created in the same folder as the EAGLE board (.brb) and schematic (.sch) files.

|| *File Extension* || *Description/Type* || *Polarity* || *Layer ID* ||
|| .cmp || Top Copper || N/A || N/A ||
|| .crc || Drawing/Other || N/A || N/A ||
|| .crs || Drawing/Other || N/A || N/A ||
|| .drd || NC Drill || N/A || N/A ||
|| .dri || Drawing/Other || N/A || N/A ||
|| .gpi || Drawing/Other || N/A || N/A ||
|| .l15 || Inner Copper || Positive Polarity || Layer 2 ||
|| .ly2 || Inner Copper || Positive Polarity || Layer 3 ||
|| .plc || Top Silkscreen || N/A || N/A ||
|| .pls || Drawing/Other || N/A || N/A ||
|| .sol || Bottom Copper || N/A || N/A ||
|| .stc || Top Solder Mask || N/A || N/A ||
|| .sts || Bottom Solder Mask || N/A || N/A ||

Note: The .l15 and .ly2 files only exist for 4-layer boards and may not be necessary. If inner layers exist, then the polarity and layer order/ID must be explicitly chosen. All other layers are handled automatically.

== GERBER File Organization ==

A GERBER file is just a ZIP file with a series of text files with various file extensions. The CAM processor in EAGLE will create the necessary files in the same folder as the board (.brb) and schematic (.sch) files.

  # Create a new folder on the Desktop with the name of the board design or project name
  # Copy the files created in the CAM Processing section to the new folder on the Desktop. The board (.brb) and schematic (.sch) do not need to be included.
  # Create a PNG file of the board: File->Export...->Image
  # Select a file name and save to the Desktop
  # Open the PNG file in a graphics program, such as MSPaint or [http://www.getpaint.net/ Paint.NET], and add notes about the overall dimensions and size of the board. This will prevent any delay in the fabrication process.
  # Save the PNG file with the annotations and move it to the same folder as the other files created during the CAM processing
  # Zip the folder. [http://www.7-zip.org/ 7-zip] is a utility that is helpful for creating a ZIP file from a folder.
  # Open the ZIP file in a GERBER viewer program, such as [http://gerbv.sourceforge.net/ GerbV], and make sure the board matches the design in EAGLE. The board in the GERBER viewer is the exact version the PCB fabrication house will fabricate. Make sure all of the layers are present, otherwise any missing layers will not be fabricated.
 
Once the double-check with the GERBER viewer program is completed, the ZIP folder is now ready for submission to a PCB fabrication house.